---
layout: single
title: Introduction to Linear algebra 
---


In this time, I will introduce the central problem of Linear Algebra: *Solving linear equations.* Let’s start with the simplest case. We have $n$ equations in $n$ unknowns, where $n = 2$ :

<br>

$$
\begin{aligned}
\textbf{Two equations} \quad & 1x + 2y = 3 \\
\textbf{Two unknowns} \quad & 4x + 5y = 6.
\end{aligned}
$$

<br>

---
There are two ways of finding $x$ and $y$ : *Elimination and Determinants.* 

*1. Elimination.*  
Subtract 4 times the first equation from the second equation. It leaves one equation for $y$ :

<br>

$$
\textbf{(equation 2)} - 4\textbf{(equation 1)} \quad \text{gives} \quad -3y = -6
$$

<br>

Immediately we know $y = 2$.  
Then $x$ comes from the first equation $1x + 2y = 3$:

<br>

$$
\textbf{Back-substitution} \quad 1x + 2(2) = 3 \quad \text{gives} \quad x = -1
$$

<br>

This process is essentially no different from *Gaussian Elimination*, which will be introduced soon.


---

*2. Determinants.*  
The solution $y = 2$ and $x = -1$ depends completely on the six coefficients. There must be a formula for $x$ and $y$. It is a *ratio of determinants* (or *Cramer's Rule*). It may seem mysterious unless you already know about 2x2 determinants — I will explain it later!

<br>

$$
x =
\frac{
\left|
\begin{array}{cc}
3 & 2 \\
6 & 5 \\
\end{array}
\right|
}{
\left|
\begin{array}{cc}
1 & 2 \\
4 & 5 \\
\end{array}
\right|
}
= \frac{3 \cdot 5 - 2 \cdot 6}{1 \cdot 5 - 2 \cdot 4}
= \frac{3}{-3} = -1
$$

<br>

$$
y =
\frac{
\left|
\begin{array}{cc}
1 & 3 \\
4 & 6 \\
\end{array}
\right|
}{
\left|
\begin{array}{cc}
1 & 2 \\
4 & 5 \\
\end{array}
\right|
}
= \frac{1 \cdot 6 - 3 \cdot 4}{1 \cdot 5 - 2 \cdot 4}
= \frac{-6}{-3} = 2
$$

<br>


These two approaches provide exact same result. However, if $n$ is sufficiently large, solving linear systems by *Cramer's rule* becomes a computational Challenge. Instead, it is better to use *Gaussian Elimination.* This is the algorithm that is constantly used to slove large systems of equations. it will become the basis for half of Linear algebra. During the first Chapter, i want to explain four deeper aspects : 

1. matrix notations. 

2. Linear eqautions lead to geomerty of planes. 

3. singular case. 

4. rough count of the number of elimination steps. 

Now let's begin. 
